Arch board "rules of engagement" (#983)
Azure/azure-sdk: docs/policies/reviewprocess.md

sidebar: general_sidebar
---

We expect all Azure client libraries to pass rigorous API reviews similar to those conducted for any other API produced by Microsoft (for example, the .NET APIs).  In addition to detailed reviews of new libraries, **all changes** to an API must be reviewed and approved by the language architect before release.

## Sequence of events
Depending on the nature and scope of the client library work being done, the sequence of events to follow when engaging with the architecture board will be one of the following paths...

### New libraries and/or large feature work

> It's critical that library owners engage with the architecture board early enough to allow time for fixes, and sometimes significant API redesign based on feedback. New libraries and/or large feature work should be reviewed in an architecture board meeting 3 times:

Reviewer: I think it would be good to motivate the meetings. When people see 3 meetings they think "heavy process". It would be great if people understood that the reason for the process is that talking about designs in a group, although costly, results in better APIs, facilitates teams learning, and helps in getting on the same page what we consider consistent design. The reviews are not a gate, but a fundamental process for designing good APIs.

Author: Thanks for this suggestion.  I've tried to capture the spirit of this in a new paragraph at the start of this section.  What do you think?

1. The first time is purely informational/educational getting the board up to speed with the features that are coming.  This allows for early feedback and will potentially affect the service design.
2. The second time is to propose the overall API shape in the core languages (.Net, Java, Python, and TypeScript) ideally before most of the coding work has been done to implement the APIs.  This should be done before the first public preview.
3. The third time is a final signoff with an eye towards consistency and to work through any details that arose as part of implementation.  This is the final signoff and it is not complete until all languages are signed off.  Occasionally, questions arise in the review for one langauge that will impact the implementation in other languages as well.  For this reason, it is encouraged that all langauges are scheduled for final signoff in the same board meeting or in back-to-back board meetings.

See [Requesting an API review with the board](#requesting-an-api-review-with-the-board) below for instructions on how to request one of these 3 reviews.

> ### Small targeted changes and bug fixes

Reviewer: I think the submission process/template should be the same regardless of whether we end up doing email sign off or a sit down review. I think this whole doc should start with process/template for describing the change being proposed (includes API diff, short description, possibly code samples). Then somebody decides if it's email or sit down review.

Author: So instead of communicating directly with the language architect you'd like them to open issues?  That feels more cumbersome that it needs to be.

Another idea @tg-msft and I have been discussing (which I forgot to add to the doc) was to tag all changes that modified the API signature with an "API Change" label.  This could be added by the opener of the code review, a reviewer, (tooling someday,) or anyone else who notices.  Then, architects can review all PRs with this label (whether they're still open or have been closed) and once they're satisfied with the change, add another label, "Arch Approved".  The "Arch Approved" label could only ever be added by an architect.  How does that sound for the lightweight form of architect approval?

Author: I've added a section on this.  Hopefully I've captured it well.  I also preemptively went ahead an added the labels to the core language repos.

For small/targeted changes the architect in each language can review and sign off without a combined/central review. We highly recommend doing this review as early as possible. This should be done over email where possible with links to API diffs. In some cases it makes sense for small changes to the API to be batched for efficiency. If the language architect determines there is a need for a longer discussion then a meeting with that architect should be scheduled to have that conversation. If it’s a cross language discussion, then the entire board should be scheduled. These types of changes often will be added to a GA library without the need to preview. If it is determined that the change should be previewed, it should be considered a large change even if the diff is small.

> Remember that **all changes** to an API must be reviewed and approved by the language architect before release.

Reviewer 2: I think this needs to be "approved" not "reviewed".

Author: Fixed in both spots that this statement appears.

## Sequence of events
Depending on the nature and scope of the client library work being done, the sequence of events to follow when engaging with the architecture board will be one of the following paths...

### New libraries and/or large feature work

Our common goal is to create a great developer experience on Azure.  New libraries provide an opportunty to dramatically improve that experience by working closely with the architecture board.  Talking about designs in a group results in better APIs, facilitates mutual learning, and helps get everyone on the same page for what we consider a consistent design. The reviews are not a gate, but a fundamental process for designing good APIs.

It's critical that library owners engage with the architecture board early enough to allow time for fixes, and sometimes significant API redesign based on discussion. New libraries and/or large feature work should be reviewed in an architecture board meeting three times:

> 1. The first is purely informational/educational getting the board up to speed with the features that are coming.  This allows for early feedback and will potentially affect the service design.

Author: I'll review this comment with the arch board tomorrow and see what they think.  My thoughts... for small changes it indeed will be that simple.  But for larger changes, we're recommending that teams engage early for consultation and design input, and then twice more at key points (first preview and GA) to ensure a quality API that is congruent with all of the rest of the Azure SDK libraries.

> 1. The first is purely informational/educational getting the board up to speed with the features that are coming.  This allows for early feedback and will potentially affect the service design.

Author: Wording adjusted quite a bit.  Now the first meeting is a discussion of the features and design.  The second is a full review of all 4 langauge APIs.  The third may or may not be a meeting, but is a final signoff of the API.  I think we're good on this one now.

> 2. The second is to propose the overall API shape in the core languages (.Net, Java, Python, and TypeScript) ideally before most of the coding work has been done to implement the APIs.  This should be done before the first public preview.

Reviewer 3: Nit: correct marketing term is ".NET", not ".Net". Coming from Microsoft, IMO, this looks bad.

See [Requesting an API review with the board](#requesting-an-api-review-with-the-board) below for instructions on how to request one of these three reviews.

### Small targeted changes and bug fixes
For small/targeted changes the architect in each language can review and sign off without a combined/central review. We highly recommend doing this review as early as possible. This should be done over email where possible with links to API diffs. In some cases it makes sense for small changes to the API to be batched for efficiency. If the language architect determines there is a need for a longer discussion then a meeting with that architect should be scheduled to have that conversation. If it’s a cross language discussion, then the entire board should be scheduled. 

> These types of changes often will be added to a GA library without the need to preview. If it is determined that the change should be previewed, it should be considered a large change even if the diff is small.

Author: @Petermarcu What do you think about this?

> These types of changes often will be added to a GA library without the need to preview. If it is determined that the change should be previewed, it should be considered a large change even if the diff is small.

Author: After discussing this with the arch board, we didn't draw a strict line, but strongly recommend we preview all API changes.

> These types of changes often will be added to a GA library without the need to preview. If it is determined that the change should be previewed, it should be considered a large change even if the diff is small.

Author: We talked about this in the arch board review and I've adjusted the wording to strongly encourage previews of all API changes.  We stopped short of requiring it for all API changes in the discussion.

> Remember that **all changes** to an API must be approved and approved by the language architect before release.

Reviewer 3: "must be approved and approved"?

## How to Design Great Azure APIs

> Make sure your client libraries follow [Azure SDK Design Guidelines][general-guidelines].  You can find language-specific guidance for [.NET][dotnet-guidelines], [Java][java-guidelines], [Python][python-guidelines], [TypeScript][typescript-guidelines], [Android][android-guidelines], [C][clang-guidelines], [C++][cpp-guidelines], [Go][golang-guidelines], and [iOS][ios-guidelines].

Reviewer 3: Might be more readable as a bulleted list. It's already pretty long and will likely get longer.

Author: It was a bulletted list before and it just made the document feel long to me.  I'm not even sure this section needs to be in the document honestly.  I'm considering removing it.  What do you think?

## What to Prepare for a Review

> To conduct a review of a new library or large feature work (reviews 2 and 3), we need the following things from the owners of the client library:

Author: I've removed it.

sidebar: general_sidebar
---

We expect all Azure client libraries to pass rigorous API reviews similar to those conducted for any other API produced by Microsoft (for example, the .NET APIs).  In addition to detailed reviews of new libraries, **all changes** to an API must be approved and approved by the language architect before release.

## Sequence of events

> Depending on the nature and scope of the client library work being done, the sequence of events to follow when engaging with the architecture board will be one of the following paths...

Reviewer 4: You may want to consider removing the ellipses here and either ending with a standard period or using a colon.

> ### New libraries and/or large feature work

Reviewer 4: Should there be any  guidance for features that are applicable within the scope of a single language only, rather than crossing language barriers?   For example, should work follow the "small" path of involving only the language architect or the "large" path of asking the entire board for review?  

I guess the core of the question here is whether "small" and "large" are denoting the scope of developer audience for the changes and "large" implies cross-language impact.

Reviewer 5: There should not be requirement-level differences between languages - only changes because of idiomatic usage patterns.  If its one of those, it's a small scope.

Author: I think it's pretty clear that, for small changes, each langauge architect should be contacted directly for each langauge that has changes.  That (hopefully) clearly implies that there is such a thing as a "small" change that affects multiple langauges.

I'm happy to add some clarification if you think it's needed.  What wording do you have in mind?  I can't think of anything to add here to make the point clearer without it feeling like its repetetive.

Reviewer 4: @adrianhall:  In theory, yes.   That said, there are cases where things get interesting.   What I had in mind with that question was a scenario like the request that I put in for Event Hubs last week.   There are two non-trivial types that are .NET specific;  I would hesitate to call objectively "small" but I was also very unsure of whether there was justification to reserve time with the entire board that could be used for other pressing topics.

Reviewer 5: In that case, I'd say ask the architect.  The architect should have the ability to upgrade to a full arch board review.

Reviewer 4: Thanks.   That's helpful.     It may be worth noting that here;  if you're unsure of whether a full review is needed, consult your language architect and let them make the call?

Author: Added.

Our common goal is to create a great developer experience on Azure.  New libraries provide an opportunty to dramatically improve that experience by working closely with the architecture board.  Talking about designs in a group results in better APIs, facilitates mutual learning, and helps get everyone on the same page for what we consider a consistent design. The reviews are not a gate, but a fundamental process for designing good APIs.

> It's critical that library owners engage with the architecture board early enough to allow time for fixes, and sometimes significant API redesign based on discussion. New libraries and/or large feature work should be reviewed in an architecture board meeting three times:

Reviewer 4: nit:  ... `allow time for fixes and, sometimes, signficant` ...

1. The first is purely informational/educational getting the board up to speed with the features that are coming.  This allows for early feedback and will potentially affect the service design.

> 2. The second is to propose the overall API shape in the core languages (.NET, Java, Python, and TypeScript) ideally before most of the coding work has been done to implement the APIs.  This should be done before the first public preview.

Reviewer 4: (extreme) nit: It's typically recommended to use `1.` for all list items, as the MD processors will generate the correct sequence and you don't have to manage the numbering manually for any future changes.

Author: I'd rather keep the numbers since I refer to them and their order in other parts of the doc.

See [Requesting an API review with the board](#requesting-an-api-review-with-the-board) below for instructions on how to request one of these three reviews.

### Small targeted changes and bug fixes
For small/targeted changes the architect in each language can review and sign off without a combined/central review. We highly recommend doing this review as early as possible. This should be done over email where possible with links to API diffs. In some cases it makes sense for small changes to the API to be batched for efficiency. If the language architect determines there is a need for a longer discussion then a meeting with that architect should be scheduled to have that conversation. If it’s a cross language discussion, then the entire board should be scheduled. 

> These types of changes often will be added to a GA library without the need to preview. If it is determined that the change should be previewed, it should be considered a large change even if the diff is small.

Reviewer 4: nit: consider writing out the word `difference` or potentially changing to something like `scope`?

Author: I tried rewording this and clarifying it (since the whole sentence felt vague when I re-read it.  What do you think now?

Reviewer 5: diff => delta, difference - abbreviations are frowned upon according to MS style guide.

Reviewer 4: Changes look good to me!

## How to Design Great Azure APIs

Make sure your client libraries follow [Azure SDK Design Guidelines][general-guidelines].  You can find language-specific guidance for [.NET][dotnet-guidelines], [Java][java-guidelines], [Python][python-guidelines], [TypeScript][typescript-guidelines], [Android][android-guidelines], [C][clang-guidelines], [C++][cpp-guidelines], [Go][golang-guidelines], and [iOS][ios-guidelines].

## What to Prepare for a Review

To conduct a review of a new library or large feature work, we need the following things from the owners of the client library:

1. Several code samples showing how the client library is meant to be used by customers. An example of a good set of usage samples can be found [here](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/32588).
2. A listing of 3-5 champion scenarios relevant to the developer. These must identify the critical scenarios that the majority of developers will experience. For each champion scenario, a link to a code sample in the repo must be provided. It is expected that these champion scenarios are optimized for, ensuring succinct, intuitive, and productive developer experiences are possible for each.

> 3. Listings of the APIs in each language. See below for example and tools to generate those.

Reviewer 4: Depending on the answer to my earlier question regarding language-specific items,  this sentence may need tuning.

Reviewer 5: The "those" at the end is incomplete.  "See below for tools to generate appropriate API listings".

Author: I think small changes can affect libraries in multiple langauges.  It's not a requirement that the definition of "small" change be that it only affect one langauge.  So I think this should still be plural.

sidebar: general_sidebar
---

> We expect all Azure client libraries to pass rigorous API reviews similar to those conducted for any other API produced by Microsoft (for example, the .NET APIs).  In addition to detailed reviews of new libraries, **all changes** to an API must be approved and approved by the language architect before release.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
We expect all Azure client libraries to pass rigorous API reviews similar to those conducted for any other API produced by Microsoft (for example, the .NET APIs).  In addition to detailed reviews of new libraries, **all changes** to an API must be approved by the language architect before release.
```

### 1 New libraries and/or large feature work

Our common goal is to create a great developer experience on Azure.  New libraries provide an opportunty to dramatically improve that experience by working closely with the architecture board.  Talking about designs in a group results in better APIs, facilitates mutual learning, and helps get everyone on the same page for what we consider a consistent design. The reviews are not a gate, but a fundamental process for designing good APIs.

It's critical that library owners engage with the architecture board early enough to allow time for fixes and, sometimes significant API redesign based on discussion. New libraries and/or large feature work should be reviewed in an architecture board meeting three times:
1. The first is purely informational/educational getting the board up to speed with the features that are coming.  This allows for early feedback and will potentially affect the service design.

> 2. The second is to propose the overall API shape in the core languages (.NET, Java, Python, and TypeScript) ideally before most of the coding work has been done to implement the APIs.  This should be done before the first public preview.

Reviewer 7: This presentation will be for all platforms that the feature applies to. The expectation is that the room is aware of the feature being proposed and any feature releated clarifications are done in either step 1 or over email or a Peter presentation.
We are commited to providing detailed emails about the feature and the expected usage, prior preparation by the room is expected.

Author: Sounds good.

> 3. The third is a final signoff with an eye towards consistency and to work through any details that arose as part of implementation.  This is the final signoff and it is not complete until all languages are signed off.  Occasionally, questions arise in the review for one langauge that will impact the implementation in other languages as well.  For this reason, it is encouraged that all langauges are scheduled for final signoff in the same board meeting or in back-to-back board meetings.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
3. The third is a final signoff with an eye towards consistency and to work through any details that arose as part of implementation.  This is the final signoff and it is not complete until all languages are signed off.  Occasionally, questions arise in the review for one language that will impact the implementation in other languages as well.  For this reason, it is encouraged that all languages are scheduled for final signoff in the same board meeting or in back-to-back board meetings.
```

Author: There were a bunch of these misspellings throughout, so I did a find and replace.

See [Requesting an API review with the board](#requesting-an-api-review-with-the-board) below for instructions on how to request one of these three reviews.

### 2 Small, targeted changes and bug fixes

> For small or targeted changes, the architect in each language can review and sign off without a combined/central review. We highly recommend doing this review as early as possible. This should be done over email where possible with links to API diffs. In some cases it makes sense for small changes to the API to be batched for efficiency. If the language architect determines there is a need for a deeper discussion, then a meeting with that architect should be scheduled to have that conversation. If it’s a cross language discussion, then the entire board should be scheduled. 

Reviewer: I think it would be good to add a note saying that these email reviews should be sent to the full arch board, not just to the language architect, i.e. a single language architect can sign off (on small changes) but all architects should be in the loop.

Author: I'll add it.

Reviewer 8: Would it be better to have it in a github issue thread so it can be tracked by any interested party, and shared with people who come later without having to forward and fork email threads?

> These types of changes often will be added to a GA library without the need to preview. If it is determined that the change should be previewed, it should be considered a large change (using the path number 1 above) even if the code diff itself is small.

Reviewer 7: This should include business considerations, and over time we should move towards identifying upfront whether the change can quantify as a large change. Making this identification during PR phase might be a bit too late, generally the team has been doing a good job keeping the architects engaged early in the process and those early emails are when architects should think about if this will qualify as a big change.
If the PR was the first time the architect heard about the feature, then I would agree with the sentiment here.

Author: Totally agree, trying to decide if a change is "large" or "small" by the time a PR is out is way too late and super inefficient.  I've added verbage earlier (under "sequence of events") to indicate that, unless it's obvious, an architect should be consulted on whether something qualifies as a "large" or "small" change.

Remember that **all changes** to an API must be approved by the language architect before release.

### Tracking API changes that need to be reviewed

> Between releases, changes to APIs are not always obvious (to the developer or the reviewer) when they're being made so it's important that we identify them clearly and review them to ensure the best SDK library experience for our customers. Long-term we will have tooling in place to detect API additions, changes, and breaks.  Until then, we will use the "APIChange" label on PRs to identify code changes that included a modification to an already released API.  This signals to that a langauge architect needs to review the change.  Once they've approved the change they would add the "ArchApproved" label.  Before release, a review of all changes merged into the library should be done to ensure that all "APIChange" labels are pared with an "ArchApproved" label.  Here is an [example query](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Apr+label%3AAPIChange+) for the Java libraries.

Reviewer 7: There should be an SLA assigned to this. We will keep reminding the architects over teams/email but this cannot block us for weeks. How about 7 working days for first engagement and 10 working days for resolution?

Author: We'll discuss this in the arch board meeting tomorrow.  Good suggestion!

Reviewer 7: I will add another point here, if there is disagreement within the architects (Ted vs KC or Johan vs Anna/Laurent), I want it as a 1 working day SLA at that point to resolve differences, and provide us with an unified architecture board response.

Author: Need to add "These will be resolved as part of signoff."  And we'll also add a point to the ApiView signoff process that they need to be opened for 5 working days ahead of signoff.  So the SLA would be 5 with those changes.

## How to Design Great Azure APIs

> Make sure your client libraries follow [Azure SDK Design Guidelines][general-guidelines].  You can find language-specific guidance for [.NET][dotnet-guidelines], [Java][java-guidelines], [Python][python-guidelines], [TypeScript][typescript-guidelines], [Android][android-guidelines], [C][clang-guidelines], [C++][cpp-guidelines], [Go][golang-guidelines], and [iOS][ios-guidelines].

Reviewer 7: to be pedantic. Client libraries should follow the guidelines that were present when the PRs were created. Since long running PRs are a thing for storage, any guideline conflicts that happen due to guideline changes after the PR was published should be filed as a bug and should not block the PR (unless the PR author agrees that they are necessary and can be accommodated)

Author: The guidelines are pretty fleshed out at this point.  However, if a guideline change does happen while a feature is hybernating in a long lived branch, I would suggest that we should take the time necessary to understand the guideline that changed and be careful to make the appropriate adjustments since there was probably good reason for the change.  The priority here is not "who came first" but rather "what's best for a great SDK".

Reviewer 7: I agree, and I want the decision to be subjective rather that "the guidelines says so"

Author: We discussed this in the meeting quite a bit.  The conclusion was that "final signoff is final signoff".  Once you've achieved final signoff on an API even if it won't be released for a month or two, you're good to go.

> Make sure your client libraries follow [Azure SDK Design Guidelines][general-guidelines].  You can find language-specific guidance for [.NET][dotnet-guidelines], [Java][java-guidelines], [Python][python-guidelines], [TypeScript][typescript-guidelines], [Android][android-guidelines], [C][clang-guidelines], [C++][cpp-guidelines], [Go][golang-guidelines], and [iOS][ios-guidelines].

Reviewer 8: I'd be interested in seeing this section flushed out a little more.  From conversations I've had with some of the architects, the Azure SDK Guidelines are an extension of any language-specific guidelines that came before, i.e. the .NET Framework Design Guidelines for .NET, so those should be followed as well.  I would expect there to be similar guidance for other languages ... it might be nice to link out to these as well?  (Or it might be out of the scope of this document?)  From recent learnings, I think it's becoming clear that just following the SDK Guidelines doesn't guarantee a great API... at a minimum it would be good to call out that working with the architecture board will help produce a great API.  The SDK guidelines are patterns they've already worked out taking into account both cross-Azure and cross-language considerations, so these are necessary but not sufficient.  I'm wondering if renaming the section to something like "Getting Started Toward a Great Azure API" would help express this better?

Author: This is not the correct document to provide those details in.  I'm mearly keeping these links in the document for convenience.  I considered removing this section all together since it orthogonal to the process being detailed in this document.

## What to Prepare for a Review

To conduct a review of a new library or large feature work, we need the following things from the owners of the client library:

1. Several code samples showing how the client library is meant to be used by customers. An example of a good set of usage samples can be found [here](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/32588).
2. A listing of 3-5 champion scenarios relevant to the developer. These must identify the critical scenarios that the majority of developers will experience. For each champion scenario, a link to a code sample in the repo must be provided. It is expected that these champion scenarios are optimized for, ensuring succinct, intuitive, and productive developer experiences are possible for each.

> 3. Listings of the APIs in each language. See below for example and tools to generate those.

Reviewer: If it's the first review (service overview), do people still need listing of the APIs?

Reviewer 8: I wonder if presenting the REST APIs in the first meeting would be sufficient?  (For REST-based services)  This and a discussion of the hero/business scenarios and target customers.  By looking at how customers would accomplish the most important scenarios using the REST APIs, and really understanding the end-to-end workflows and object model types, architects can imagine what that might look like in their own languages, and provide early guidance as to whether the client libraries could be directly generated from the REST APIs, or whether there would need to be design changes/renaming, etc.  Or areas where functionality could use patterns specific to a language, where patterns have been developed by other Azure services that already have Track 2 SDKs, etc, so service teams wouldn't have to spend time inventing their own.  It might be nice here to say something like "this service looks and behaves much like this service, so let's follow that service's example," or "this services is in this logical group of services, so let's adopt patterns from those," etc.

Author: I've cleaned this up to be a list of things that should be provided at the intial discussion.  You're both correct that it's not possible for them to provide API listings if the API doesn't exist yet.  Agreed the REST APIs are a great place to start.

sidebar: general_sidebar
---

We expect all Azure client libraries to pass rigorous API reviews similar to those conducted for any other API produced by Microsoft (for example, the .NET APIs).  In addition to detailed reviews of new libraries, **all changes** to an API must be approved by the language architect before release.

## Sequence of events
Depending on the nature and scope of the client library work being done, the sequence of events to follow when engaging with the architecture board will follow one of two paths.  If you are unsure which path applies to the work you are doing, you should consult with a language architect for guidance.

> ### 1 New libraries, large feature work, and/or core pipeline changes

Reviewer 9: Can we remove 'core' from this?

Author: Yep!  Done.  The word "core" was used in the meeting when I played back the audio which is why I included it.

> Our common goal is to create a great developer experience on Azure.  New libraries provide an opportunty to dramatically improve that experience by working closely with the architecture board.  Talking about designs in a group results in better APIs, facilitates mutual learning, and helps get everyone on the same page for what we consider a consistent design. The reviews are not a gate, but a fundamental process for designing good APIs.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

> It's critical that library owners engage with the architecture board early enough to allow time for fixes and, sometimes significant API redesign based on discussion. New libraries and/or large feature work should be discussed in an architecture board meeting three times:

Author: Incorporate.  Thanks!

> 1. **Informational** - The first is purely informational/educational getting the board up to speed with the features that are coming.  This allows for early feedback and will potentially affect the service design.  High level topics such as API namespaces, function names, and types will be suggested in this first discussion.  See [What to prepare for the initial discussion](#what-to-prepare-for-the-initial-discussion) below.

Author: Incorporated.  Thanks!

> 1. **Informational** - The first is purely informational/educational getting the board up to speed with the features that are coming.  This allows for early feedback and will potentially affect the service design.  High level topics such as API namespaces, function names, and types will be suggested in this first discussion.  See [What to prepare for the initial discussion](#what-to-prepare-for-the-initial-discussion) below.

Author: Agreed.  @kyle-patterson should probably maintain a list like this for the arch board to cover in these meetings.

See [Requesting a meeting with the board](#requesting-a-meeting-with-the-board) below for instructions on how to request one of these three meetings.

### 2 Small, targeted changes and bug fixes

For small or targeted changes and bug fixes which modify APIs, the architect in each language can review and sign off without a combined/central review. We highly recommend doing this review as early as possible. This should be done over email where possible with links to API diffs.  CC the full [Architecture Board](mailto:adparch@microsoft.com) on these mails. In some cases it makes sense for small changes to the API to be batched for efficiency. If the language architect determines there is a need for a deeper discussion, then a meeting with that architect should be scheduled to have that conversation. If it’s a cross language discussion, then the entire board should be scheduled. 

Remember that **all changes** to an API must be approved by the language architect before release.

### Previewing API changes

> Because we are committed to never breaking APIs, it is expected that API changes are released in preview or RC (release candidate) for a period of time before they are released as GA.  This gives customers time to provide feedback which could result in adjustments to the API before it GAs.  In most circumstances, API changes going through either the full or abreviated review process should be previewed (or RC) before GA.

Reviewer 9: I don't see the relationship between never breaking APIs and having previews or RCs before going GA. Can you drop the past about 'never breaking APIs'?

Author: Agreed, the connection was week in this sentance.  I've removed the first clause of that sentence and added a new sentence later in the paragraph stating: "API changes that go straight to GA do not benefit from this feedback [customer feedback] and can result in them being difficult for customers to use and for us to support."

### Tracking API changes that need to be reviewed

> While an API is in preview or after it in GA, changes to APIs are not always obvious (to the developer or the reviewer) when they're being made so it's important that we identify them and review them to ensure the best SDK library experience for our customers. Long-term we will have tooling in place to detect API additions, changes, and breaks.  Until then, we will use the "APIChange" label on PRs to identify code changes that included a modification to an already released API.  This signals to that a language architect needs to review the change.  Once they've approved the change they would add the "ArchApproved" label.  Before release, a review of all changes merged into the library should be done to ensure that all "APIChange" labels are pared with an "ArchApproved" label.  Here is an [example query](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Apr+label%3AAPIChange+) for the Java libraries.  

Author: Got these.  Thanks!

When the library developers indicate they're ready to release, these should be reviewed by the architect as part of final signoff before GA.  Libraries should not be released as GA (or updated to GA) if there are unresolved "APIChange" labels without a corresponding "ArchApproved" label.

## What to prepare for the initial discussion

For the initial discussion of a new library or large feature work, it is encouraged that the following things be proposed or provided by the owners of the client library:

> 1. Several code samples showing how the client library is meant to be used by customers. An example of a good set of usage samples can be found [here](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/32588).

Reviewer 7: This is assume is for the 2nd meeting. If the first one is a brownbag and we are yet to decide on package names et al, this had the potential to create confusion

Author: Nah, this was supposed to be the first meeting.  But you're absolutely right, this doesn't fit there.  I've moved it to a better place indicating that it's for the API review, not the first meeting.

2. Link to the service documentation/specification.
3. Link to the service REST APIs, if applicable/available.

## Requesting a meeting with the board

To request a review:

1. [Submit an issue](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk/issues/new/choose) to the [Architecture Board].  If the service is pre-release and not yet publicly disclosed, use the private repository([azure-sdk-pr](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-pr)).  After creating the issue, email the [Architecture Board](mailto:adparch@microsoft.com) to communicate specific requests such as scheduling, invite lists, etc.
    - Ensure you provide all information (or direct links to the information) for ease of review.

>     - If this is an API review, ensure that API listings are published for review at lease 5 working days before the meeting with the board, allowing time for reviews and comments.

Author: typeo "lease"
should be "least"

We expect all Azure client libraries to pass rigorous API reviews similar to those conducted for any other API produced by Microsoft (for example, the .NET APIs).  In addition to detailed reviews of new libraries, **all changes** to an API must be approved and approved by the language architect before release.

## Sequence of events
Depending on the nature and scope of the client library work being done, the sequence of events to follow when engaging with the architecture board will be one of the following paths:

### 1 New libraries and/or large feature work

Our common goal is to create a great developer experience on Azure.  New libraries provide an opportunty to dramatically improve that experience by working closely with the architecture board.  Talking about designs in a group results in better APIs, facilitates mutual learning, and helps get everyone on the same page for what we consider a consistent design. The reviews are not a gate, but a fundamental process for designing good APIs.

> It's critical that library owners engage with the architecture board early enough to allow time for fixes and, sometime,s significant API redesign based on discussion. New libraries and/or large feature work should be reviewed in an architecture board meeting three times:

Reviewer 5: sometime,s => sometimes

Reviewer 5: Also, I think you should remove the and before.  Sometimes, ...

1. The first is purely informational/educational getting the board up to speed with the features that are coming.  This allows for early feedback and will potentially affect the service design.
2. The second is to propose the overall API shape in the core languages (.NET, Java, Python, and TypeScript) ideally before most of the coding work has been done to implement the APIs.  This should be done before the first public preview.
3. The third is a final signoff with an eye towards consistency and to work through any details that arose as part of implementation.  This is the final signoff and it is not complete until all languages are signed off.  Occasionally, questions arise in the review for one langauge that will impact the implementation in other languages as well.  For this reason, it is encouraged that all langauges are scheduled for final signoff in the same board meeting or in back-to-back board meetings.

See [Requesting an API review with the board](#requesting-an-api-review-with-the-board) below for instructions on how to request one of these three reviews.

### 2 Small targeted changes and bug fixes

> For small/targeted changes the architect in each language can review and sign off without a combined/central review. We highly recommend doing this review as early as possible. This should be done over email where possible with links to API diffs. In some cases it makes sense for small changes to the API to be batched for efficiency. If the language architect determines there is a need for a deeper discussion, then a meeting with that architect should be scheduled to have that conversation. If it’s a cross language discussion, then the entire board should be scheduled. 

Reviewer 5: For small targeted change, the architect (add comma)

Reviewer 5: Also, "This should be done over email where possible with links to API diffs" => "Unless otherwise directed by the language architect, approval for small targeted changes can be handled over email.  Provider links to the API diffs when sending the approval request."

If you have a prototype of your APIs, depending on the language the APIs are for, you can possibly generate the API listing.

- For .NET, upload a DLL to the [ApiView tool](http://apiview.azurewebsites.net).
- For Java, upload a JAR to the [ApiView tool](http://apiview.azurewebsites.net).
- For TypeScript, use [API-Extractor](https://github.com/Microsoft/web-build-tools/wiki/API-Extractor) to produce a single file with your public API surface.  Submit the output of the API-Extractor as a PR for the [azure-sdk-for-js](http://github.com/azure/azure-sdk-for-js) repository.

> - For Python, use [some tool] to produce a single file with your public API surface.  Submit the output of [some tool] as a PR for the [azure-sdk-for-js](http://github.com/azure/azure-sdk-for-js) repository.

Reviewer 5: Per Johan, the "some tool" is stubgen from mypy. See https://github.com/python/mypy/blob/master/docs/source/stubgen.rst 

Also, the repository is wrong.

For all other languages, send a request to the [Architecture Board] to discuss the best format on individual basis.

## Requesting an API review with the board

To request a review:

1. [Submit an issue](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk/issues/new/choose) to the [Architecture Board].  If the service is pre-release and not yet publicly disclosed, use the private repository.  After creating the issue, email the [Architecture Board](mailto:adparch@microsoft.com) to communicate specific requests such as scheduling, invite lists, etc.
    - Ensure you provide all information (or direct links to the information) for ease of review.

> 2. The ADP Review Board PM will schedule a 1:1 with a language architect to provide initial guidance.  It is important that this initial review happen **BEFORE** any major development happens.

Author: @adrianhall, does this 1:1 with a PM thing actually happen?  Should we keep this in here?

Reviewer 5: Sometimes, the PM is bypassed and the 1:1 with the architect or dev lead happens instead.  In general, this is a good idea though.

Author: Okay, I think I'm going to remove this then unless we want to require it.  If we want to require it, it doesn't belong here.  I think it belongs above in the squecence of events section.

If you have a prototype of your APIs, depending on the language the APIs are for, you can possibly generate the API listing.

- For .NET, upload a DLL to the [ApiView tool](http://apiview.dev).

> - For Java, upload a JAR to the [ApiView tool](http://apiview.dev).

Author: Got it.

- For Python, use [stubgen from mypy](https://github.com/python/mypy/blob/master/docs/source/stubgen.rst) to produce a single file with your public API surface.  Submit the output of stubgen as a PR for the [azure-sdk-for-python](http://github.com/azure/azure-sdk-for-python) repository.

For all other languages, send a request to the [Architecture Board] to discuss the best format on individual basis.

## Requesting an API review with the board

To request a review:

1. [Submit an issue](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk/issues/new/choose) to the [Architecture Board].  If the service is pre-release and not yet publicly disclosed, use the private repository([azure-sdk-pr](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-pr)).  After creating the issue, email the [Architecture Board](mailto:adparch@microsoft.com) to communicate specific requests such as scheduling, invite lists, etc.
    - Ensure you provide all information (or direct links to the information) for ease of review.

> 2. A review with the entire review board will be scheduled.

Reviewer 8: Does it make sense to designate a point of contact on the Azure SDK team to work with the service team?  In the past this has been an architect, but it seems like that doesn't scale.  We also have engineering leads, PMs and technical leads involved -- who should be the service team's main point of contact for issue resolution and guidance between board meetings?

Author: We do designate a point of contact for partner teams (I'm the contact for storage).  I follow these steps to request arch board reviews on their behalf.

Author: There is an engineering manager assigned to each of the service teams to help guide them through these processes.  I'm working with the storage team which is why I was motivated to clarify this document since it was unclear how many and how often they needed to review their API changes.
